The President: Hi, everybody.
Today, our economy is
growing and our businesses
are consistently
generating new jobs.
But decades-long trends
still threaten
the middle class.
While those at the top are
doing better than ever,
too many Americans are
working harder than ever,
but feel like they
can't get ahead.
That's why the budget I
sent Congress earlier this
year is built on the idea
of opportunity for all.
It will grow the middle
class and shrink the
deficits we've already
cut in half since
I took office.
It's an opportunity
agenda with four goals.
Number one is creating
more good jobs
that pay good wages.
Number two is training
more Americans with
the skills to fill those jobs.
Number three is
guaranteeing every
child access to a
great education.
And number four is making
work pay - with wages
you can live on, savings you
can retire on,
and health care that's there for
you when you need it.
This week, the Republicans
in Congress put forward
a very different budget.
And it does just the
opposite: it shrinks
opportunity and makes it
harder for Americans
who work hard to get ahead.
The Republican budget
begins by handing out
massive tax cuts to
households making more
than $1 million a year.
Then, to keep from blowing
a hole in the deficit,
they'd have to raise taxes
on middle-class
families with kids.
Next, their budget forces
deep cuts to investments
that help our economy
create jobs,
like education and
scientific research.
Now, they won't tell you
where
these cuts will fall.
But compared to my budget,
if they cut everything
evenly, then within a few
years, about
170,000 kids will be cut from
early education programs.
About 200,000 new mothers
and kids will
be cut off from programs to help
them get healthy food.
Schools across the country
will lose funding that
supports 21,000 special
education teachers.
And if they want to make
smaller cuts to one
of these areas, that means
larger cuts in others.
Unsurprisingly, the
Republican budget
also tries to repeal the
Affordable Care Act -
even though that would take
away health coverage
from the more than seven
million Americans
who've done the responsible
thing and signed
up to buy health insurance.
And for good measure,
their budget guts
the rules we put in place to
protect the middle
class from another financial
crisis like the
one we've had to fight so hard
to recover from.
Policies that benefit a
fortunate few while making
it harder for working
Americans to succeed
are not what we
need right now.
Our economy doesn't grow
best from the top-down;
it grows best from
the middle-out.
That's what my opportunity
agenda does -
and it's what I'll keep
fighting for.
Thanks.
And have a great weekend.